{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2576
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red83\green83\blue83;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c40000\c40000\c40000;}
\margl1440\margr1440
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs26 \cf2 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone Master Another \'93Foreign\'94 Language - This One in Writing\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs22 \cf2 \
November 2020\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
	We probably all remember the struggle we had in high school with the French class (and that was for the lucky ones who did not elect to take Chinese).  The utter foreignness of the vocabulary, the pronunciation, and the grammar was hard to comprehend, recite, much less master.\
				\
 			\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
	I had the same difficulty learning another foreign language, English, while growing up in China.  Eventually, I took the unconventional approach to learning a foreign language by throwing away the grammar and usage books, scoring low inside the infamous \'93examination hell\'94 be damned.  Like a baby gaining intuition of one\'92s mother tongue, I immersed myself in \'93the original text,\'94 by devouring The New York Times and The New Yorker magazine.  Although I could not understand most of the words in the beginning, I enjoyed the enthralling news accounts, and eventually the hard-hitting opinion pieces, aided occasionally by the accompanying photos.  \
\
	Once the language started to make sense, some of the ideas it carried became even more enthralling, such as this one, proclaimed by a son of Russian immigrants, born in French-speaking Montreal:\
\
	\'93I am an American, Chicago born.\'94 \
\
	Thus announced Saul Bellow in the opening sentence of The Adventures of Augie March, a novel that propelled him onto the American literary scene, and eventually to a Nobel Prize.\
\
	The moral from all of this: focus on the facts, the logic, and the ideas conveyed by a language, and practice, practice, practice.  The fear and incomprehension will be overtaken by human curiosity and will.\
\
	The same goes for learning to code in a programming language.\
\
\
\
\
	
\f0\b\fs26 \cf3 \'93\cf2 Talk is cheap\cf3 . \cf2 Show me the code\cf3 .\'94 - \cf2 Linus Torvalds, inventor of Linux\

\f1\b0\fs22 \
	18 months ago, I embarked on learning a new programming language, Python, and went through the common ordeal as I was climbing a steep learning curve: countless hours of cluelessness, self doubt, even despair.  \
\
	And a trial by fire.  The application process of a data science bootcamp involved presenting a project idea.  Back then, I knew next to nothing about machine learning algorithms, probability theory, or statistical inference.  So I tried to develop a couple of rudimentary data visualization charts.\
\
	The datasets that I tapped into were readily available on the World Bank\'92s website.  One does not even have to make API calls.  The needed CSV files can be directly downloaded onto one\'92s laptop computer.  \
\
	One would think that the datasets published by a well-funded multilateral institution would be tidy, without much need for data cleaning.  As I dived deeper, though, I quickly realized that, for a large organization with close to 200 member states at different stages of economic development, a lot of data were missing.  \
\
	For my exercise, even with such powerful tools as the Python Pandas library, the simple task of extracting 4 countries\'92 historical data within a given time period became a stumbling block.  In a moment of exasperation, I \'93cheated\'94 by manually selecting and assembling the data in an Excel sheet (then again, the application requirement was for coming up with \'93sketches, even handwritten ones, about the direction you want to pursue.\'94)\
\
	Today, 18 months on, to write this blog, I tried to programmatically accomplish the same data preparation with Python coding only.  With a combination of data type coercion, list concatenation, list comprehension, and Pandas data frame slicing and transposition, I succeeded in shaping the needed data in the right format, before using the Python matplotlib library to generate the same chart as the one on the World Bank website: \
 \
		\
\
	\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
	Here are some of the code snippets:\
\
	worldbank_mfg = pd.read_csv(\'93./data/API_NV/Modified_API_NV.IND.MANF.CD_DS2_en_csv_v2_1681328.csv")\
\
	big_4 = ['China', 'Germany', 'Japan', 'United States\'92]\
\
	wb_4_mfg = worldbank_mfg[\
                        worldbank_mfg['Country Name\'92].isin(big_4)]\
\
	years_2000_2012 = (['Country Name'] + \
                   [str(year) for year in range(2000, 2013)])\
\
	wb_4_mfg = wb_4_mfg[years_2000_2012]\
\
	wb_4_mfg = wb_4_mfg.transpose()\
\
	wb_4_mfg.columns = ['China', 'Germany', 'Japan', 'United States\'92]\
\
	wb_4_mfg = wb_4_mfg.iloc[1:, :]\
\
	wb_4_mfg.plot()\
\
	\
\
	Summary\
\
	Throwing out a few Python syntax and technical jargons is not meant to show off, or to take a victory lap.  I am nowhere close to \'93mastering\'94 the Python programming language, bash, git, Docker, and many other data engineering tools.  Through concentrated effort and persistence, though, I\'92ve gained the confidence and passion for continuing to plug away at learning the whole suite of data engineering skills. }